---
layout: post
title: 校验和计算
category: net
typora-root-url: ../../..
---

另外关于校验和，需要了解：(另开一篇文章)

1. 校验和算法：

   1) 首先将检验和置零；
   2) 然后将TCP伪首部部分，TCP首部部分，数据部分都划分成16位的一个个16进制数
   3) 将这些数逐个相加，记得溢出的部分加到最低位上，这是循环加法：
   0xc0a8+ 0x0166+……+0x0402=0x9b49
   4) 最后将得到的结果取反，则可以得到检验和位0x64b6

2. 校验和是耗时的：

3. 校验和算法是有缺陷的：参考:http://noahdavids.org/self_published/CRC_and_checksum.html

   > ### The Limitations of Ethernet Frame Check Sequence
   >
   > The Ethernet Frame Check Sequence (FCS) is a 32 bit CRC. The mathematical analysis of CRC error detection is a complex subject and I will not go into it here. Suffice to say that the Ethernet FCS will detect
   >
   > - Any 1 bit error
   > - Any two adjacent 1 bit errors
   > - Any odd number of 1 bit errors
   > - Any burst of errors with a length of 32 or less
   >
   > Everyone agrees on the above but things become more nebulous when talking about bursts longer than 32 bits. Everyone agrees that some extremely small number of errors will still go undetected but actual numbers are hard to come by and no one seems to agree with anyone else.
   >
   > Part of the problem might be the term "error burst". An error burst is defined by 2 values. First is the number of bits between the first and last error bits, for example a Y bit error burst will have bit N and bit N+Y-1 in error. Second is the value of the guard band, this is the number of contiguous bits within those Y bits that can be correct. None of the references that I found mentioned the value of the guard band.
   >
   > Despite the vagueness of the error burst definition it would appear that the Ethernet CRC will detect the vast majority of errors. Unfortunately, "vast majority" is not "all". In addition, that majority is not as vast as the mathematics would lead you to believe. The problem is that the Ethernet FCS is recalculated by every Ethernet device between the source and destination. The calculation is done either by the Ethernet driver or on the chip itself. Any errors in the higher layer software of these devices or transient failures of the hardware (memory or bus) will result in the destination seeing an Ethernet frame with a valid FCS but containing corrupt data. To protect against these errors TCP is dependent on the IP and TCP checksums that are part of the protocol headers.
   >
   > 
   >
   > ### The Limitations of the TCP and IP checksums
   >
   > The IP checksum is a 16 bit 1's complement sum of all the 16 bit words in the IP header. Note that this does not cover the TCP header or any of the TCP data. The TCP checksum is a 16 bit 1's complement sum of all the 16 bit words in the TCP header (the checksum field is valued as 0x00 0x00) plus the IP source and destination address values, the protocol value (6), the length of the TCP segment (header + data), and all the TCP data bytes. If the number of header+data bytes is not an integer multiple of 16, pad bytes of 0x00 are added at the end until it is a multiple of 16. These pad bytes are not transmitted.
   >
   > The checksum calculation will NOT detect
   >
   > - Reordering of 2 byte words, i.e. 01 02 03 04 changes to 03 04 01 02
   > - Inserting zero-valued bytes i.e. 01 02 03 04 changes to 01 02 00 00 03 04
   > - Deleting zero-valued bytes i.e. 01 02 00 00 03 04 changes to 01 02 03 04
   > - Replacing a string of sixteen 0's with 1's or 1' with 0's
   > - Multiple errors which sum to zero, i.e. 01 02 03 04 changes to 01 03 03 03
   >
   > In "[Performance of Checksums and CRCs over Real Data](http://ccr.sigcomm.org/archive/1995/conf/partridge.pdf)"1 Stone and Partridge estimated that between 1 in 16 million and 1 in 10 billion TCP segments will have corrupt data and a correct TCP checksum. This estimate is based on their analysis of TCP segments with invalid checksums taken from several very different types of networks. The wide range of the estimate reflects the wide range of traffic patterns and hardware in those networks. One in 10 billion sounds like a lot until you realize that 10 billion maximum length Ethernet frames (1526 bytes including Ethernet Preamble) can be sent in a little over 33.91 hours on a gigabit network (10 * 10^9 * 1526 * 8 / 10^9 / 60 / 60 = 33.91 hours), or about 26 days over a T3.

